in this video I'm going to cover
abbreviated formulas now what is an
abbreviated formula well I've already
discussed proprietary blends and why you
want to avoid them so a lot of other
some companies are jumping on this
non-proprietary bandwagon they're waving
their non-proprietary flag now the
problem with a non proprietary formula
is they're very expensive to make that's
why we have proprietary blends they can
put a tiny bit of ingredients in their
product is very cheap to make they can
mark it up make a lot of money yet crap
results products like pre gym post gym
shud gym and alpha gym are loaded with
real ingredients at real doses pre Jim
alone has 13 ingredients all marked out
clearly in the proper dose is that
expensive to make excessively expensive
anywhere from four to as much as 10
times what other pre workouts costs and
a lot of those pre workouts are 30 or 40
servings this is still costing me like I
said four to ten times more to make just
to make it's very expensive now for most
companies that have to have a big
marketing budget to push their products
they can't afford all those ingredients
13 ingredients in pre gym no they can't
so what they're doing is they're putting
in 9 proprietary blends but they're
abbreviated formulas so let's talk about
pre workouts right for those of you who
don't know what's in pre gym but some of
the major players are 6 grams of
citrulline malate 6 grams of
branched-chain amino acids two grams of
creatine hydrochloride two grams of beta
alanine one and a half grams of became I
I can go on and on
what an abbreviated formula will look
like is the list the now this the
ingredient list on pre jim is so big
that we actually had to break it up into
two different supplement facts panels
here what an abbreviated formula will
look like will be like this one on the
right here just this short little
they'll just have a few well I of
thirteen ingredients abbreviated formula
might have three or four so it might
have created and the list of dos have
created maybe beta alanine and if you're
lucky maybe branch chain amino acids and
then some caffeine so to put in four
ingredients right well where's where's
the betaine where are the other critical
ingredients that you need that we know
provide the unparalleled results that
you're getting with prej same thing with
post workouts got six grams of
branched-chain amino acids three grams
of glutamine two grams of carnitine two
grams of beta alanine one and a half
grams of betaine again i can continue
but an abbreviated formula might provide
you maybe some cretin maybe some branch
chain amino acids if you're lucky maybe
a little bit of carnitine
non-proprietary but you're missing a lot
of the other key ingredients when it
comes to a fat burner you'll see that
all the time as well now with pre gym
I've got acetyl l-carnitine at a one and
a half gram dose green tea extract 500
milligrams forty-five percent egcg which
is the critical critical catechins that
provide the benefits of green tea when
it comes to fat burning obviously
there's caffeine does cayenne pepper
there's synephrine these are the key
ingredients that you've seen in my
articles on building your own fat burger
now an abbreviated fat burner
will probably skip acetyl l-carnitine
which is one of the more critical and
effective fat burners because they just
can't put in a high enough dose to be
effective or they'll list it but tool
only put in 500 milligrams so won't
it'll be non-proprietary but it's a
crappy dose you're not going to get
anything off five hundred millions or
even 250 milligrams will you often see
with green tea extract if they do put it
in there certainly won't be 500
milligrams you might get a hundred
milligrams you lucky if you get 250 and
the egcg content will either not even be
listed because they don't want you to
know how little is in that green tea
extract or it'll just be far less and if
it is 50% you can guarantee it'll be
somewhere around 100 milligrams per dose
if you're lucky they'll often skip out
on the Cayenne obviously they'll put in
the caffeine and usually they'll skip
out on the synephrine they'll probably
throw in some buzz word fat burning
ingredients like raspberry ketones green
coffee bean extract because dr. oz
talked about them those are abbreviated
fatburger four minutes when it comes to
testosterone boosters I've included
fenugreek damiana dim ashwagandha Yuriko
melange a folio and croissant all at
proper doses which is why this is a very
effective testosterone booster an
abbreviated formula might list these
ingredients but you might be lucky to
get maybe fenugreek maybe samira coma
and probably some crappy tribulus those
three ingredients tribulus today the
tribulus that's available as raw
material is absolute garbage it's a
waste of time which is why I didn't put
it in alpha gym but that would be a
typical abbreviated formula when it
comes to testosterone booster so be wary
of abbreviated formulas let others know
when they say oh I'm taking this product
that lists all the ingredients and then
when they tell you oh it's a pre-workout
well it has three grams of creatine a
gram of beta alanine 200 milligrams of
caffeine and some tyrosine that's an
abbreviated formula there's no branch
chain amino acids there's no betaine in
there there's no huperzine for focus
there's no citrulline malate key
ingredients that are missing that you
know are effective because you're using
the gym system and you're seeing the
results that they're not that's because
their products are skipping out on those
key ingredients as well as underdosing
them